Amongst the dusty surface of the moon, Endreth awoke confused and unsure of who, or where, he was. His tattered garb suggested he once belonged to a tribe of sorts, but no remnants of any such tribe could be seen upon the lunar horizon. No such answers or shreds of hints would be provided, until the fateful day he stumbled upon a vast and magnificent tower. So enthralled was he by this landmark and its surrounding structures, that he took up residence within the tower itself. End's new home, however, revealed to actually be a tower full of eons worth of collective notes and records, specifically about the residents of the tower and their plans for the star called "Etheirys." Countless were the months of End's studdies within the tower, all the while no such other residents were ever seen. The creators of this tower, these "Ascians", were only ever mentioned and never actually seen. Yet as fascinating as the tales and notes were of Etheirys, no such records ever provided any information on he himself or anyone else dwelling upon the moon's surface at any point of time. As far as he could tell, Endreth was always alone here, but for what purpose? He couldn't tell. 

A year had passed and as he had now thoroughly poored through the vast collection of records, during this time he had also discovered a strong connection within himself to harness aether. He would master the dark arts of black magic, as if it were natural, and with the snap of his fingers large bursts of fire and ice could be summoned at his whim. Yet with all his studies, Endreth would develop another craving, a fierce hunger to see the world Etheirys for himself. For a year now the star had only been the brilliant blue jewel of his sky, but no more. He wished to explore its vast beauty and, with luck, perhaps find some answers to who he was and why he awoke upon such a strange place alone. With the proper harnessing of creation magics and the use of aether powered constructs, Endreth successfully sent himself from the tower to the jewel of his night. Having his journey upon the moon fully concluded, he took the name Endreth to signify the end of his former life, whatever it was, and the true start of his new life upon Etheirys. 

End would spend the next many years adventuring about the world. Having first arrived in Uldah Endreth would meet a miqot'e by the name of Kalirah Swiftfoot. Miss Swiftfoot pointed End in the direction of the pirate built port of Limsa Lominsa as adventuring about the world proved kinder to those who had connections to sea-faring folk. Taking her word he would journey to the port of scoundrels and there he would meet one Clive Arven, a captain and leader of a small adventuring free company. The group of pirates would take End under their wing and, together, sail across the world finding countless treasures and wonders, all while forging a strong bond of friendship. Many years did the group travel, and Endreth would learn new ways to fend for himself, but not all things last forever and after a brutal storm, the entirety of the fc and their ship, were lost to the sea. Only Endreth survived and was taken aboard another vessel once he was found. The captain, one Vivienne Nautissa, escorted him back to Limsa Lominsa where he would harden his resolve in honor of his former FC mates. He would not succumb to despair, and would instead, continue adventuring forth.